
My project "Covariance In Proteins" is a mix of computing and biology. It models predictions by  using the "em_max", "ex_max" and "states_0_brightness" phenotypes on two different protein representations "pc_coords" and "proteins_projeted_pc_coords". The aim of the project is to determine to what capacity these phenotypes can be predicted by the R^2 predictive metric using a linear model of the above representations.

The data used is imported from a csv file. Then under the aminoacids variable the amino acids in the sequence are determined and turned into an array under the leftjustified_seqs variable. The leftjustified_seqs variable uses the "ljust" unction to se tproteins_projeted_pc_coords". The aim of the project is to determine to what capacity these phenotypes can be predicted by the R^2 predictive metric using a linear model of the above representations. The two representations have different sizes with pc_coords loking at 227 proteins and  positions of amino acids in a protein to 512. Under the leftjustified_seqs is now stored 227 proteins with 512 amino acid positions each. Folowing the variables creation they are put to work in the match_aminoacids function. This function turns an array of 1s and 0s depending on the input protein sequences matching the 21 amino acids stored under the previously created aminoacids variable and this array is stored under the protein_ohe variable. Singular Value Decomposition is performed o the protein_ohe variable and stored under the final representation pc_coords. Now that all variables are assigned, the model can be trained.
The model is trained usin the K-fold cros validation method. The x value is assigned as pc_coords, while the y value is the "states_0_brightness" form the initial dataframe. The data is split into 10 folds, and as it is in nature of K-fold cv all 10 folds are used to train and test which is why the method produces accurate results. It uses all data points rather than assigning a random 10% for the test set. 
